J pw-roasted
sunday chicken

J MINUTES

fever there were 2 dish worthy of a
«ynday dinner, this is it. Nothing is
cover than the smell of a slow-roasting
chicken. No matter how old I get, it
shrys brings me back to when my
somwould roast one on Sundays
(naddition to baking her chocolate
dtp cookies). She served it up with a
buttery side dish, usually potatoes but
sometimes rice. And bread. Always
bread. So that got me thinking—what’s
the only thing that could possibly make
aSunday chicken better? A side of
buttery, lemony orzo cooked directly
ongside, making this hearty dinner
‘complete one-and-done. Yes, it takes
ev hours, but that time is almost
‘ompletely hands-off, nothing fancy,
a ee is always stunning. . .
7 “Ourse, delicious. Serve it
ae Styl, straight from the
Perfect dinner that impresses

nd satis
ms fies everyone, Don’t worry, no
Reeds to knoy

w how stinkin’ easy it
"510 make 4

3 garlic Cloves, finel
grated, plus 3 w
1 tablespoon fresh
Plus 1 thyme spi

2 teaspoons chi
lopped fresh ri
plus 1 rosemar SHGMEIN,

; Y sprig 2 cups baby spinach

teaspoon s; i vA f

3 smoked paprika % Cup dry white wine, such as pinot
lemons 8rigio or Sauvignon Blanc

'y chopped or

hole cloves 2 tablespoons bal

: Isamic vinegar
ee tablespoons salted butter, cut into
= A-tablespoon slices

TA cups orzo

1 tablespoon extra 2 cups low-sodium chicken broth

1 tablespoon chopped fresh dill, plus
more for serving

virgin olive oil
Fine pink Himalayan salt and freshly
ground pepper

1 (4-pound) chicken Chopped fresh basil and/or parsley,

for serving (opti
1 large yellow onion, quartered capey

+ 1. Preheat the oven to 200°R

2. Ina small bowl, combine the chopped garlic, thyme leaves, chopped
rosemary, paprika, and 2 teaspoons lemon zest. Add the olive oil and

a generous pinch each of salt and pepper and stir to combine. Rub the
seasoned oil all over the chicken and under the skin to season the breast.
Stuff 2 onion quarters into the cavity of the chicken.

3. Place the chicken, breast-side up, in a large Dutch oven or oven-safe
pot with a lid. Cut 1 lemon into wedges. Scatter the lemon wedges, the
remaining 2 onion quarters, the whole garlic cloves, and the thyme and
rosemary sprigs around the chicken. Drizzle the balsamic vinegar over the
chicken breasts, then scatter 2 tablespoons of the butter over them.

4. Cover the pot and roast the chicken for 2 hours and 45 minutes to

3 hours. Remove from the oven. Increase the oven temperature to 425°E

i ot, scatter
5. Discard the lemon wedges, onion, and herb sprigs: In on ae
the remaining 1 tablespoon butter and the 0770 around the cl - 2 oa
until the butter is melted. Sprinkle the spinach around the oe eae =,
the wine and broth and season with salt. Cut the remaining lem
e wine

and add the slices to the pot. 7 :

v il the orz0 is

Return the pot to the oven and roast, re ee.
4 dente and the chicken skin is golden brown, 15 to
al dent ; [ :
okay if there is some liquid Jeft in the po!
rye the chicken strail

ight from the Pot with

7, Stir the dill into the orzo. Se fe
additional herbs, if you like, for each Pp}

NOTE
If you're hi I
just lift up the chicken t

aving trouble stirring the or?

o move it around:

CHICKEN

7 Paras
